Dataset Viewer, Structure and Libraries docs (#1070)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-manual-configuration.md

# Manual Configuration

This guide will show you how to configure a custom structure for your dataset repository.

> A dataset with a [supported structure and file format](./datasets-adding#files-formats) automatically has a Dataset Viewer on its dataset page on the Hub. You can use YAML to configure the splits and builder parameters that are used by the Viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dataset with a supported structure and [file formats](./datasets-adding#file-formats) automatically has a Dataset Viewer on its dataset page on the Hub. You can use YAML to define the splits, configurations and builder parameters that are used by the Viewer.
```

> It is even possible to define multiple configurations for the same dataset (e.g. if the dataset has various independent files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to define multiple configurations for the same dataset (e.g. if the dataset has various independent files).
```

# Manual Configuration

> To host and share your dataset, create a dataset repository on the Hugging Face Hub and upload your data files.

Reviewer 2: do we need this sentence?

This guide will show you how to configure a custom structure for your dataset repository.
A dataset with a supported structure and file format (`.txt`, `.csv`, `.parquet`, `.jsonl`, `.mp3`, `.jpg`, `.zip` etc.) automatically has a dataset viewer on its dataset page on the Hub.

## Define your splits and subsets in YAML

## Splits

> If you have multiple files and want to define which file goes into which split, you can use the YAML `configs` field at the top of your README.md.

Reviewer 2: maybe explain (or link to) what a config is?

Reviewer 2: it might be confusing with the title of this page (Manual configuration)

Author: I removed the mention of `configs` in this sentence. And added this in the intro of this page to introduce the notion of configs:

```
You can use YAML to configure the splits and builder parameters that are used by the Viewer.

It is even possible to define multiple configurations for the same dataset (e.g. if the dataset has various independent files).
```

my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
├── data/
│   ├── abc.csv
│   └── def.csv
└── holdout/
    └── ghi.csv
```

```yaml
---
configs:
- config_name: default
  data_files:
  - split: train
    path:
    - "data/abc.csv"
    - "data/def.csv"
  - split: test
    path: "holdout/ghi.csv"
---
```

Or you can use glob patterns to automatically list all the files you need:

```yaml
---
configs:
- config_name: default
  data_files:
  - split: train
    path: "data/*.csv"
  - split: test
    path: "holdout/*.csv"
---
```

<Tip warning={true}>

Note that `config_name` field is required even if you have a single configuration.

</Tip>

## Configurations

Your dataset might have several subsets of data that you want to be able to load separately. In that case you can define a list of configurations inside the `configs` field in YAML:

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
├── main_data.csv
└── additional_data.csv
```

```yaml
---
configs:
- config_name: main_data
  data_files: "main_data.csv"
- config_name: additional_data
  data_files: "additional_data.csv"
---
```

Each configuration is shown separately on the Hugging Face Hub, and can be loaded by passing its name as a second parameter:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we want to show the snippet here

Reviewer 2: > Each configuration is shown separately on the Hugging Face Hub,

maybe mention the subsets select/dropdown component instead

Author: removed the snippet and mentioned the dropdowns

from datasets import load_dataset

main_data = load_dataset("my_dataset_repository", "main_data")
additional_data = load_dataset("my_dataset_repository", "additional_data")
```

## Builder parameters

Not only `data_files`, but other builder-specific parameters can be passed via YAML, allowing for more flexibility on how to load the data while not requiring any custom code. For example, define which separator to use in which configuration to load your `csv` files:

```yaml
---
configs:
- config_name: tab
  data_files: "main_data.csv"
  sep: "\t"
- config_name: comma
  data_files: "additional_data.csv"
  sep: ","
---
```

> Refer to [specific builders' documentation](./package_reference/builder_classes) to see what configuration parameters they have.

Reviewer 2: the URL should refer to the datasets lib, I think. Or a simpler doc here

<Tip>

> You can set a default configuration using `default: true`, e.g. you can run `main_data = load_dataset("my_dataset_repository")` if you set 

Reviewer 2: same: maybe explain without "datasets" code
